---
layout: page
title: 4. Policies
description: >-
    Course policies.
---

<style>
.icon-edstem {
  display: inline-block;
  width: 30px;
  height: 30px;
  vertical-align: middle;
  margin-right: 4px;
  background-image: url('/11102-f25/assets/images/hammer1.png');
  background-size: contain;
  background-repeat: no-repeat;
}

.blue-bullet {
  color: #96b6e0ff;
  font-weight: bold;
  font-size: .6em; /* adjust size if you like */
}
</style>

# Course Policies

## Switching Sections

You are expected to attend the section you are officially signed up for. That is where your attendance will be recorded. 
- We do not allow **_unofficial_** section switching. 
- If you can't officially change your section through the registrar, we can't help either!

> If you want to switch sections, try posting (during the first week of classes only) on EdStem or any other social media group to check if someone is willing to swap sections with you. If there is a pair willing to swap sections, we can help by reaching out to the registrar.
{: .tip }

## Missing the Midterm Exam

You are entitled to a make-up exam if you miss the midterm exam, provided that:
- You provide a valid excuse.
- You inform your instructor **_within 3 days_** of the exam or the date of your medical report.

{: .important-title }
> Valid Excuses
>
> According to university regulations, a valid excuse is a medical report from a doctor (approved by the the university's medical center) or a note from a Dean justifying your absence.

## Missing the Final Exam

If you miss the final exam, you need to request a make-up exam and provide a valid excuse through the online registration portal. All requests for make-up final exams are handled by the Dean, not by the course instructor. The report must be submitted through the system **_within 7 days_** of the final exam.

## Missing a Quiz

There will be a single make-up quiz during the last week of the semester for those who miss Quiz 1 and/or Quiz 2.
- To sit for this quiz, you need to get your instructor's approval (who might request a valid excuse).
- If you miss two quizzes, the make-up quiz will be worth 12%. If you miss one quiz, the make-up quiz will be worth 6%.

> If you know ahead of time that you will not be able to attend a quiz with your section, or if you miss the quiz due to an emergency, reach out to your instructor as soon as possible to see if you can be rescheduled to attend the quiz with another section.
{: .note }

## Missing Other Coursework

If you have a **_valid excuse_** preventing you from submitting the weekly exercises, reach out to your instructor and ask for them to be rescheduled to the following week.

## Late Submissions

The weekly exercises are meant to keep you on track. Therefore, you will receive credit for these exercises if you submit them before the beginning of the following week.

- The weekly exercises are always due by **11:59 PM on Saturday**.
- You can still receive credit if you submit up to 8 hours late. This is automatically done and does not require any special request.
- You will **not** receive any credit for work submitted more than **_8 hours late_**.

> If you miss the weekly exercises on a week, make sure to attempt them as soon as you can. While you will not receive credit, they are very important for your learning and for not falling behind.
{: .note }

> Assignments are different from the weekly exercises. They have their own deadlines. However, the lateness policy is the same (up to 8 hours late). Check the [Assignments page](/11102-s26/assignments/) for the deadlines.
{: .note }

## Collaboration & Generative AI Use

You are allowed to interact with your colleagues and use Generative AI while solving the practice exercises and self-assessment quizzes (provided that you avoid plain plagiarism, as explained below). However, you are expected to exercise good judgment regarding when and how to collaborate and/or use GenAI. Your goal should be to learn and check your learning, not just to get the work done. Otherwise, you won't do well in the proctored GenAI-free assessments.

> Check the [Programming with GenAI page](/11102-s26/genai/#what-is-unhealthy-use-of-genai) for examples of healthy and unhealthy use of GenAI.
{: .tip }

## Plagiarism

- If you use an axe to cut a tree, you are the one who cut the tree (using the axe). Similarly, if you use GenAI to generate code, you are the one who generated the code using GenAI. 
- However, you can't come to a tree already cut by someone else and claim you are the one who cut it. Similarly, you can't submit code generated by someone else and claim you are the one who generated it.
- Submitting code you did not generate for any coursework is a serious act of **_plagiarism_**. Cases of plagiarism are reported to the Dean.

> According to the university regulations, the penalty for plagiarism is **_at least_** an F in the course.
{: .warning }

